Support azure dm private link (#20953)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md

This document guides you through migrating your MySQL databases from Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon RDS, Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server, Google Cloud SQL for MySQL, or self-managed MySQL instances to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/).

This feature enables you to migrate your existing MySQL data and continuously replicate ongoing changes (binlog) from your MySQL-compatible source databases directly to TiDB Cloud, maintaining data consistency whether in the same region or across different regions. The streamlined process eliminates the need for separate dump and load operations, reducing downtime and simplifying your migration from MySQL to a more scalable platform.

If you only want to replicate ongoing binlog changes from your MySQL-compatible database to TiDB Cloud, see [Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md).

## Limitations

### Availability

- The Data Migration feature is available only for **TiDB Cloud Dedicated** clusters.

> - If you don't see the Data Migration option for your cluster in the TiDB Cloud console, the feature might not be available in your region. Please contact our [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support) team for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you don't see the [Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md#step-1-go-to-the-data-migration-page) entry for your TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster in the TiDB Cloud console, the feature might not be available in your region. To request support for your region, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> - The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters that are created in [certain regions](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud-pricing-details/#dm-cost) after November 9, 2022. If your **project** was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster, and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

Author: Based on our internal discussion and confirmation with @nicole-yc, we agreed to simplify the Data Migration availability section by removing outdated details (such as date and region logic) and making it easier for users to understand.

Here’s the proposed update:

```suggestion
- If you don't see the Data Migration option for your cluster in the TiDB Cloud console, the feature might not be available in your region. Please contact our [TiDB Cloud Support](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-support) team for assistance.
```

This version keeps the message accurate while being clearer for users and easier to maintain long-term. Let me know if you’re okay with this change or have any feedback!

1. In the Azure portal, open MySQL Flexible Server, Server parameters.
2. Search for each setting and update the values.
Most changes apply without a restart; the portal indicates if a reboot is needed.
3. Verify with the `SHOW VARIABLES` query.

For detailed instructions, see [Server Parameters in Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-server-parameters) in the Microsoft Azure documentation.

</details>

<details>
<summary> Configure Google Cloud SQL for MySQL </summary>

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to Cloud SQL, `<your_instance>`, Flags.
2. Add or edit the necessary flags (`log_bin`, `binlog_format`, `binlog_row_image`, `binlog_expire_logs_seconds`).
3. Click Save. Cloud SQL prompts a restart if required.
4. After Cloud SQL restarts, run the `SHOW VARIABLES` query to confirm.

For detailed instructions, see [Configure database flags](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/flags) and [Use point-in-time recovery](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/backup-recovery/pitr) in the Google Cloud documentation.

</details>

### Ensure network connectivity

> Before creating a migration job, you need to plan and set up proper network connectivity between your source MySQL instance, TiDB Cloud DM (Data Migration) service, and your target TiDB Cloud cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating a migration job, you need to plan and set up proper network connectivity between your source MySQL instance, the TiDB Cloud Data Migration (DM) service, and your target TiDB Cloud cluster.
```

> Your options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available connection methods are as follows:
```

> | Connectivity Pattern | Availability | Recommended for |
> |:---------------------|:-------------|:----------------|
> | Public Endpoints / IPs | All cloud providers | Quick proof-of-concept migrations, testing, or when private connectivity isn't available |
> | Private Links / Endpoints | AWS and Azure only | Production workloads without exposing data to the public internet |
> | VPC Peering | AWS and GCP only | Production workloads that need low-latency, intra-region connections and whose VPC/VNet CIDRs do not overlap |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connection method | Availability | Recommended for |
|:---------------------|:-------------|:----------------|
| Public endpoints or IP addresses | All cloud providers supported by TiDB Cloud | Quick proof-of-concept migrations, testing, or when private connectivity is unavailable |
| Private links or endpoints | AWS and Azure only | Production workloads without exposing data to the public internet |
| VPC peering | AWS and Google Cloud only | Production workloads that need low-latency, intra-region connections and have non-overlapping VPC/VNet CIDRs |
```

> Choose the connection method that best fits your security requirements, network topology, and cloud provider. Proceed with the setup for the chosen connectivity pattern.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
Choose a connection method that best fits your cloud provider, network topology, and security requirements, and then follow the setup instructions for that method.
```

> #### End-to-end Encryption over TLS/SSL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### End-to-end encryption over TLS/SSL
```

> In any case, TLS/SSL is highly recommended for end-to-end encryption. Private Link and VPC Peering protect the network path, but end‑to‑end encryption protects the data and satisfies compliance checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the connection method, it is strongly recommended to use TLS/SSL for end-to-end encryption. While private endpoints and VPC pPeering secure the network path, TLS/SSL secures the data itself and helps meet compliance requirements.
```

<details>

> <summary> Download and store the provider's certificates for TLS/SSL encrypted connections </summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary> Download and store the cloud provider's certificates for TLS/SSL encrypted connections </summary>
```

> - [AWS RDS / Aurora using SSL/TLS to encrypt a connection to a DB instance or cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/UsingWithRDS.SSL.html)
> - [Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server - connect with encrypted connections](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-tls-ssl)
> - [GCP Cloud SQL - manage SSL/TLS certificates](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/manage-ssl-instance)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon RDS MySQL: [using SSL/TLS to encrypt a connection to a DB instance or cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/UsingWithRDS.SSL.html)
- Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server: [connect with encrypted connections](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-tls-ssl)
- Google Cloud SQL for MySQL: [manage SSL/TLS certificates](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/manage-ssl-instance)
```

### Limitations of existing data migration

- During existing data migration, if the target database already contains the table to be migrated and there are duplicate keys, the rows with duplicate keys will be replaced.

- If your dataset size is smaller than 1 TiB, it is recommended that you use logical mode (the default mode). If your dataset size is larger than 1 TiB, or you want to migrate existing data faster, you can use physical mode. For more information, see [Migrate existing data and incremental data](#migrate-existing-data-and-incremental-data).

### Limitations of incremental data migration

- During incremental data migration, if the table to be migrated already exists in the target database with duplicated keys, an error is reported and the migration is interrupted. In this situation, you need to make sure whether the MySQL source data is accurate. If yes, click the "Restart" button of the migration job, and the migration job will replace the target TiDB Cloud cluster's conflicting records with the MySQL source records.

> - During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it might open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are migrated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are migrated to the target TiDB Cloud cluster to make sure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the target TiDB Cloud cluster. In this scenario, for MySQL source tables without primary keys or not-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the target TiDB Cloud cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly into the target TiDB Cloud cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it might open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are migrated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are migrated to the target TiDB Cloud cluster to make sure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the target TiDB Cloud cluster. In this scenario, for MySQL source tables without primary keys or non-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the target TiDB Cloud cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly into the target TiDB Cloud cluster.
```

<details>
<summary> Download and store the cloud provider's certificates for TLS/SSL encrypted connections </summary>

- Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon RDS MySQL: [Using SSL/TLS to encrypt a connection to a DB instance or cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/UsingWithRDS.SSL.html)
- Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server: [Connect with encrypted connections](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-tls-ssl)
- Google Cloud SQL for MySQL: [Manage SSL/TLS certificates](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/manage-ssl-instance)

</details>

#### Public endpoints or IP addresses

When using public endpoints, you can verify network connectivity and access both now and later during the DM job creation process. TiDB Cloud will provide specific egress IP addresses and prompt instructions at that time.

1. Identify and record the source MySQL instance's endpoint hostname (FQDN) or public IP address.

> 2. Ensure you have the required permissions to modify the firewall or security group rules for your database. Refer to your cloud provider’s documentation for guidance as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Ensure you have the required permissions to modify the firewall or security group rules for your database. Refer to your cloud provider's documentation for guidance as follows:
```

## Prerequisites

> Before migrating, check supported data sources, enable binary logging in your MySQL source, ensure network connectivity, and prepare appropriate privileges for both the MySQL source and target TiDB Cloud cluster databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before migrating, check whether your data source is supported, enable binary logging in your MySQL-compatible database, ensure network connectivity, and grant required privileges for both the source database and the target TiDB Cloud cluster database.
```

### Make sure your data source and version are supported

Data Migration supports the following data sources and versions:

> | Data Source | Supported Versions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data source | Supported versions |
```

|:------------|:-------------------|

> | Self-managed MySQL (on-prem or public cloud) | 8.0, 5.7, 5.6 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Self-managed MySQL (on-premises or public cloud) | 8.0, 5.7, 5.6 |
```

| Amazon Aurora MySQL | 8.0, 5.7, 5.6 |
| Amazon RDS MySQL | 8.0, 5.7 |

> | Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Servers | 8.0, 5.7 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server | 8.0, 5.7 |
```

| Google Cloud SQL for MySQL | 8.0, 5.7, 5.6 |

> ### Enable binary logs in the source MySQL database for replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable binary logs in the source MySQL-compatible database for replication
```

> To enable replication from the source MySQL database to the TiDB Cloud target cluster using DM for continuously capturing incremental changes, you need these MySQL configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To continuously replicate incremental changes from the source MySQL-compatible database to the TiDB Cloud target cluster using DM, you need the following configurations to enable binary logs in the source database:
```

| Configuration | Required value | Why |
|:--------------|:---------------|:----|

> | `log_bin` | `ON` | Enables binary logging that DM reads to replay changes in TiDB |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `log_bin` | `ON` | Enables binary logging, which DM uses to replicate changes to TiDB |
```

| `binlog_format` | `ROW` | Captures all data changes accurately (other formats miss edge cases) |
| `binlog_row_image` | `FULL` | Includes all column values in events for safe conflict resolution |
| `binlog_expire_logs_seconds` | ≥ `86400` (1 day), `604800` (7 days, recommended) | Ensures DM can access consecutive logs during migration |

#### Check current values and configure the source MySQL instance

> To confirm the current configurations, connect to the source MySQL instance and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check the current configurations, connect to the source MySQL instance and execute the following statement:
```

```sql
SHOW VARIABLES WHERE Variable_name IN 
('log_bin','server_id','binlog_format','binlog_row_image',
'binlog_expire_logs_seconds','expire_logs_days');
```

> If necessary, change the source MySQL instance configurations to match the requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If necessary, change the source MySQL instance configurations to match the required values.
```

<details>
<summary> Configure a self‑managed MySQL instance </summary>

> 1. Open `/etc/my.cnf` and add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open `/etc/my.cnf` and add the following:
```

>     ```toml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
```

    [mysqld]
    log_bin = mysql-bin
    binlog_format = ROW
    binlog_row_image = FULL
    binlog_expire_logs_seconds = 604800   # 7 days retention
    ```

> 2. Restart: `sudo systemctl restart mysqld`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
2. Restart the MySQL service to apply the changes: 

    ```
    sudo systemctl restart mysqld`
    ```

````

> 3. Run the `SHOW VARIABLES` query again to verify that the settings took effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement again to verify that the settings take effect.
```

> For detailed instructions, see [MySQL Server System Variables documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html) and [The Binary Log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/binary-log.html) in the MySQL Reference Manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions, see [MySQL Server System Variables](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html) and [The Binary Log](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/binary-log.html) in MySQL documentation.
```

</details>

<details>
<summary> Configure Azure Database for MySQL ‑ Flexible Server </summary>

1. In the Azure portal, open MySQL Flexible Server, Server parameters.
2. Search for each setting and update the values.
Most changes apply without a restart; the portal indicates if a reboot is needed.
3. Verify with the `SHOW VARIABLES` query.

For detailed instructions, see [Server Parameters in Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-server-parameters) in the Microsoft Azure documentation.

</details>

<details>
<summary> Configure Google Cloud SQL for MySQL </summary>

1. In the Google Cloud console, go to Cloud SQL, `<your_instance>`, Flags.
2. Add or edit the necessary flags (`log_bin`, `binlog_format`, `binlog_row_image`, `binlog_expire_logs_seconds`).
3. Click Save. Cloud SQL prompts a restart if required.
4. After Cloud SQL restarts, run the `SHOW VARIABLES` query to confirm.

> For detailed instructions, see [Configure database flags](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/flags) and [Use point-in-time recovery](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/backup-recovery/pitr) in the Google Cloud documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed instructions, see [Configure database flags](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/flags) and [Use point-in-time recovery](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/backup-recovery/pitr) in Google Cloud documentation.
```

| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global | Provides access to binlog position and server status |

For example, you can use the following `GRANT` statement in your source MySQL instance to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql
GRANT SELECT, LOCK TABLES, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT ON *.* TO 'dm_source_user'@'%';
```

#### Grant required privileges in the target TiDB Cloud cluster

For testing purposes, you can use the `root` account of your TiDB Cloud cluster.

For production workloads, it is recommended to have a dedicated user for replication in the target TiDB Cloud cluster and grant only the necessary privileges:

| Privilege | Scope | Purpose |
|:----------|:------|:--------|
| `CREATE` | Databases, Tables | Creates schema objects in the target |
| `SELECT` | Tables | Verifies data during migration |
| `INSERT` | Tables | Writes migrated data |
| `UPDATE` | Tables | Modifies existing rows during incremental replication |
| `DELETE` | Tables | Removes rows during replication or updates |
| `ALTER`  | Tables | Modifies table definitions when schema changes |
| `DROP`   | Databases, Tables | Removes objects during schema sync |

> | `INDEX`  | Tables | Creates and modifies indexes |

Reviewer: The privileges listed here seem the same as those in https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/dm-worker-intro/#downstream-database-user-privileges.   @D3Hunter would you please help check if more permissions such as "CREATE VIEW" is needed for DM? Thanks.

> | `INDEX`  | Tables | Creates and modifies indexes |

Reviewer 2: @jusong Could you provide more detail about this user case? I checked the code of dm, and the needed privilege seems same with the document:
https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/blob/6171842112189c7f020ca7db786c875a612ae1a0/dm/pkg/checker/privilege.go#L196-L205

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job** in the upper-right corner. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connections

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connections.

> 

Reviewer: For step 5 in this section, do you need a similar action for Azure?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fed31654-f3bd-488b-86b7-aea9d6afa84a)

Author: Yes. Fixed in this commit effc80912738c439b9092a8b7460e19ca285ed0c.

You can use **physical mode** or **logical mode** to migrate **existing data** and **incremental data**.

- The default mode is **logical mode**. This mode exports data from MySQL source databases as SQL statements, and then executes them on TiDB. In this mode, the target tables before migration can be either empty or non-empty. But the performance is slower than physical mode.

- For large datasets, it is recommended to use **physical mode**. This mode exports data from MySQL source databases and encodes it as KV pairs, writing directly to TiKV to achieve faster performance. This mode requires the target tables to be empty before migration. For the specification of 16 RCUs (Replication Capacity Units), the performance is about 2.5 times faster than logical mode. The performance of other specifications can increase by 20% to 50% compared with logical mode. Note that the performance data is for reference only and might vary in different scenarios.

> Physical mode is available for TiDB clusters deployed on AWS and Google Cloud.

Reviewer: What about Azure Blob Storage?

Author: Removed that line

> Physical mode is available for TiDB clusters deployed on AWS and Google Cloud.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Physical mode is available for all providers, so we can remove this line since it is not providing any useful information.

    - If you use Public IP or VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).

>     - If you use AWS Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request. Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), and click **Endpoint services** to accept the endpoint request.
> 
>     - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request:
>         - **For AWS**: Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), click **Endpoint services**, and accept the endpoint request from TiDB Cloud
>         - **For Azure**: Go to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for your MySQL Flexible Server by name, then navigate to **Networking** > **Private Endpoints** to approve the pending connection request from TiDB Cloud
> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request:
        - **For AWS**: Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), click **Endpoint services**, and accept the endpoint request from TiDB Cloud
        - **For Azure**: Go to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), search for your MySQL Flexible Server by name, then navigate to **Networking** > **Private Endpoints** to approve the pending connection request from TiDB Cloud

```

For more information about errors and solutions, see [Precheck errors and solutions](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-dm-precheck-and-troubleshooting.md#precheck-errors-and-solutions).

> For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](/dm/dm-precheck.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-precheck).
```
